---
title: 'Inclusion is for everyone: the right approach?'
date: 2022-07-21
tags:
  - Inclusion
  - Accessibility
description: "It's hard to disagree that we should design services that is accessible to everybody. However, is it productive to think about inclusion in this way? Do we lose the focus on making services accessible to the disadvantaged in this way?"
---

## Definition of "inclusion"

According to the Merriam-Webster Dictionary, the first definition of "inclusion" is:

> "the act of including : the state of being included"

in which "included" is defined as:

> "to take in or comprise as a part of a whole or group"

In web development, accessibility is becoming a more and more important topic.
We often see the rhetoric that accessible online services benefit everyone,
even if you thought that someone wouldn't necessarily have benefitted from it.

## The flat curb example

There is the famous example of the flat curb. By building flat curbs, not only
wheelchair users or those with motor difficulties can use them, but also if you
are pushing a cart or a pram whilst able bodied, or if you are temporarily
disabled because you broke an ankle.

This is without a doubt a good thing. However, there is a danger to expanding a
project's or policy's scope to "making it good for everyone" instead of limiting
it to "making it good for the disadvantaged". We risk forgetting the specific
needs of those excluded in society and making specific goals to make sure they
are included. I think the focus on the disadvantaged is becoming less important
as it is easier to convince higher ups to support and fund accessibility themes.
It's impossible to argue that you don't want to make a product that "works for
everyone". What does "designing for everyone" even mean in concrete terms?

## Inclusion by looking at exclusion

Another definition of "inclusion" from Merriam-Webster is:

> "the act or practice of including and accommodating people who have historically been excluded (as because of their race, gender, sexuality, or ability)"

In this definition, we look at inclusion from the (explicit) perspective of
exclusion. By looking at inclusion from this perspective, we can better focus
on the specific needs and rights of those currently (and possibly) excluded. We
have a better idea of what kind of insights and skills we need to use to solve
our (design) problems and can make more tangible goals.

## Forza Horizon 5

To demonstrate the success of one such approach, we can learn from the
development team at Forza Horizon 5 (Playground Games). They decided at the
beginning of development that they will use the input of disability experts
(usually disabled people) to make a game that is accessible to the deaf
community. By inviting those usually excluded, in this case the deaf and hard of
hearing, they brought together a network of experts, consultants, managers and
actors that made sure that the game has good support for British Sign Language
(BSL) and American Sign Language (ASL) speakers in which the experience feels
seamless and enjoyable for this demographic. Additionally, now they have reduced
the barrier for themselves (and eventually others in the industry) to make use
of this field of expertise to make a truly accessible game in which clear and
tangible targets were set and achieved.

The achievements of Forza Horizon 5 has been received with much praise. It is
almost shocking to me how innovative this feels, while it seems so obvious that
such features should be the standard by now. Nevertheless, it shows the success
and scalability of approaching inclusion from the perspective of exclusion. I
think more producers of digital media should follow suit. We have shifted the
focus in accessibility from the "excluded" to "everyone" to gather support from
management and investors. I think we can also gather support from examples such 
as these.
